# Constructive Heuristic for The Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP)

The Traveling Salesman Problem can be describe as the problem of treveling through a set of vertices in a weighted graph G={V,E} and returning to the vertex from where it started. In this graph,vertices represents cites and the edges representsthe roads that connect them. Each edges has an associated cost, which represents the distance or price of traveling between two cities. The objective of the TSP is to find a tour that gives the minimum total cost that visits all cities exactly once and return to the starting vertex. 
The optimization version of the TSP is a classic problem in computer science due to its NP-completeness, which means that as the number of cities increases, the combinatorial complexity of the problem grows exponentially. Since there is no known algorithm in the state of art capable of returning a globally optimal solution in reasonable computational time for large instances, heuristics can be developed to provide approximative solutions efficiently. Although these solution may not be exact, they are often considered to be good enough for pratical purposes. 

This is an assignent for the subject "Heuristics and Metaheuristics", provided by the departament of Computer Science at Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG). The goal of the first part of this project is to develop skills in design and implementation of constructive heuristics for optimization problems, such as the TSP, applying the concepts and methods learnt in class.

For the given test case instances of the TSP, I chose the Farthest Insertion heuristic to implement, since it often produces high-quality near-optimal solutions with relatively low computational complexity, usually performing better than the Nearest Neighbor heuristic approach. It is particularly effective for the Euclidean TSP, where cities are located on a 2D plane, because its strategy of picking the farthest unvisited city for insertion helps to gradually form a good approximation of the convex hull, which is known to be visited in a similar order to the optimal TSP tour. 


